README.md, before:

# WinTile: Windows 10 window tiling for GNOME
WinTile is a hotkey driven window tiling system for GNOME that imitates the
standard `Win-Arrow` keys of Windows 10, allowing you to maximize, maximize
to sides, or 1/4 sized to corner a window using just `<Super>`+`<Arrows>`.

WinTile also supports:
- 2-5 columns for standard or ultrawide monitors
- 2-4 rows for standard or ultrawide monitors
- Mouse preview and snapping for placing tiles
- "Maximize" mode, which adds/removes GNOME animations
- Ultrawide-only mode allows 16:9 screens to use separate row/col counts
- Adding gaps around tiles

<img src='demo.gif'>

# Usage:
### Moving with arrow key:
Pressing `<Super>`+`<Arrows>` will move tile around the screen.
- `<Super>`+`<Up>` will maximize your tile with a few different levels
	- Maximized vertically in the current column
	- Maximized horizontally in the top row
	- If you're using 4-5 col mode, it will maximize in the center leaving 1 column on either side first

- `<Super>`+`<Left>` or `<Super>`+`<Right>`
	- Move a tile in that direction. If it's at the edge of a screen, it will go full-height
	- If a tile is more than 1 column wide and on the edge in that direction
 it will shrink by 1 column

- `<Super>`+`<Down>` will maximize your tile with a few different levels
	- If you're already maximized in 4/5 col mode, it will downsize in the center leaving 1 column on either side
	- If maximized vertically, it will shrink to the bottom row
	- If minimizing is enabled, the tile will disappear to the task bar

- `<Super>`+`<Ctrl>`+`<Arrow>` will grow the window in that direction if there is room

### Moving with the mouse:
Dragging a window around the edge of the screen will create a preview of
where that tile will snap.

There are a few zones to be aware of
- Top Center maximizes a window
- Bottom Center maximizes horizontally in the bottom row
- In the center of any column on the bottom row will maximize vertically in that column
- Right or left center will maximize vertically in a column
    - If using 4/5 columns and double-width is enabled, it will maximize on that half of the screen

- Holding `<CTRL>` while dragging will create a 1x1 anywhere in the grid without needing to be at an edge
- Any other zone along the edge will create a 1x1 tile


# Configuration
### Browser
1. Visit https://extensions.gnome.org/local/
1. Click on the "Configure this extension" button.

### Gnome-tweaks
1. Open `Extension` settings in [Gnome Tweaks](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-tweaks)
1. locate `Wintile` and click on the cogwheel button to bring up the configuration dialog.


# Installation
### GNOME Extension site:
https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1723/wintile-windows-10-window-tiling-for-gnome/

### Building from source
1. Download source code from the [Master](https://github.com/Fmstrat/wintile/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) or [develop](https://github.com/Fmstrat/wintile/archive/refs/heads/develop.zip) branches.
1. unzip the file
1. cd into the directory it creates
1. run `./build.sh`
1. run `unzip -d wintile@nowsci.com wintile@nowsci.com.zip`
1. run `cp -r wintile@nowsci.com ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/`
1. restart your session

Wayland users need to reboot to enable the extension.

Gnome users can press `<Alt>`+`<F2>` and run `r` from the prompt. **(IT WILL NOT WORK from a terminal)**

### Debugging
If you're having issues, please attach some debug logs to your issue. 
Note: debugging must be enabled in WinTile settings

```bash
journalctl -qf | grep -i -e wintile -e 'js error'
```

Commit message:

draw previews with super and ctrl
While dragging a tile, hold `<CTRL>` and `<SUPER>` will create a start
point for a preview.  Now you can drag a window to be X cols wide by Y rows tall

README.md, after:

# WinTile: Windows 10 window tiling for GNOME
WinTile is a hotkey driven window tiling system for GNOME that imitates the
standard `Win-Arrow` keys of Windows 10, allowing you to maximize, maximize
to sides, or 1/4 sized to corner a window using just `<Super>`+`<Arrows>`.

WinTile also supports:
- 2-5 columns for standard or ultrawide monitors
- 2-4 rows for standard or ultrawide monitors
- Mouse preview and snapping for placing tiles
- "Maximize" mode, which adds/removes GNOME animations
- Ultrawide-only mode allows 16:9 screens to use separate row/col counts
- Adding gaps around tiles

<img src='demo.gif'>

# Usage:
### Moving with arrow key:
Pressing `<Super>`+`<Arrows>` will move tile around the screen.
- `<Super>`+`<Up>` will maximize your tile with a few different levels
	- Maximized vertically in the current column
	- Maximized horizontally in the top row
	- If you're using 4-5 col mode, it will maximize in the center leaving 1 column on either side first

- `<Super>`+`<Left>` or `<Super>`+`<Right>`
	- Move a tile in that direction. If it's at the edge of a screen, it will go full-height
	- If a tile is more than 1 column wide and on the edge in that direction
 it will shrink by 1 column

- `<Super>`+`<Down>` will maximize your tile with a few different levels
	- If you're already maximized in 4/5 col mode, it will downsize in the center leaving 1 column on either side
	- If maximized vertically, it will shrink to the bottom row
	- If minimizing is enabled, the tile will disappear to the task bar

- `<Super>`+`<Ctrl>`+`<Arrow>` will grow the window in that direction if there is room

### Moving with the mouse:
Dragging a window around the edge of the screen will create a preview of
where that tile will snap.

There are a few zones to be aware of
- Top Center maximizes a window
- Bottom Center maximizes horizontally in the bottom row
- In the center of any column on the bottom row will maximize vertically in that column
- Right or left center will maximize vertically in a column
    - If using 4/5 columns and double-width is enabled, it will maximize on that half of the screen

- Holding `<CTRL>` while dragging will create a 1x1 anywhere in the grid without needing to be at an edge
- Holding `<SUPER>`+`<CTRL>` will create a start point for multi-row/col tiles
- Any other zone along the edge will create a 1x1 tile


# Configuration
### Browser
1. Visit https://extensions.gnome.org/local/
1. Click on the "Configure this extension" button.

### Gnome-tweaks
1. Open `Extension` settings in [Gnome Tweaks](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-tweaks)
1. locate `Wintile` and click on the cogwheel button to bring up the configuration dialog.


# Installation
### GNOME Extension site:
https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1723/wintile-windows-10-window-tiling-for-gnome/

### Building from source
1. Download source code from the [Master](https://github.com/Fmstrat/wintile/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) or [develop](https://github.com/Fmstrat/wintile/archive/refs/heads/develop.zip) branches.
1. unzip the file
1. cd into the directory it creates
1. run `./build.sh`
1. run `unzip -d wintile@nowsci.com wintile@nowsci.com.zip`
1. run `cp -r wintile@nowsci.com ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/`
1. restart your session

Wayland users need to reboot to enable the extension.

Gnome users can press `<Alt>`+`<F2>` and run `r` from the prompt. **(IT WILL NOT WORK from a terminal)**

### Debugging
If you're having issues, please attach some debug logs to your issue. 
Note: debugging must be enabled in WinTile settings

```bash
journalctl -qf | grep -i -e wintile -e 'js error'
```
